# F28WP-lab1
My name is Karim I'am a year2 CS student with HWID:H00360576. In this repositry I will be working on a travel agency website. Specifically working on the HTML, CSS, and javascript codes to improve it's design and functionality over the weeks of semester1. In week3 I have created a slideshow for the images in the gallery and a registeration form.

slides:
First I created "<div class="container">" which will be holding the slideshow, the container contained 8 "<div class="mySlide">" where each one represents a slide and each slide displays one of the eight images in the gallery. Each slide also contains a "<div class="numbertext">" so that the slide number is displayed. To add functionallity to the slideshow I used Javascript, I used Javascript to keep track of the current slide using the variable let "currentSlide = 1;," to be able to update the slides numbers accordingly I used the function "showSlide(slideNumber)" and implemented "const slides = document.querySelectorAll('.mySlide');" to make sure that the slide number is not out of bound and if it is then it will go back to slide 1 and it does that by updating the currentSlide. 

Afterwards I created the navigation buttons "Previous" and "Next" in html "<a class="prev" href="#">&laquo; Previous</a>" and "<a class="next" href="#">Next &raquo;</a>" I got the navigation buttons to work using JavaScript "changeSlide(direction)" function where it will increase or decrease the slide number according to the users action, it updates the slides by calling the "showslide" function and then updates the "currentSlide" to display the next or previous slide depending on the users intial action. The "changeSlide" function gets called after the clicks either previous or next button by using the event listeners "document.querySelector('.prev').addEventListener('click', function() { changeSlide('prev'); });" and "document.querySelector('.next').addEventListener('click', function() { changeSlide('next'); });"

Registeration Form:
I have created a new file called form.html where it contains the full code for the webpage meaning I included the html,css,and js codes in the same file. I created four div classes one for the username, one for the email, one for the password, and lastley one for to confirm the password. Each div class included the input element so that a text field could be provided for the use, a unique id to be able to target it using js later on, and finally another div class where it includes an error message container incase the user doesn't provide the information correctly an error message will show. Lastely using html I created a submit button but this time it's not a div class and doesn't include an error container.

In js I first called all the html elements using "getElementById", afterwards I used the "validation" function for each element so that if the user input doesn't fit the requirments an error will show, and if the field is left empty an error will show, otherwise it will be validated. I also used the function "validateForm()" where it will check if all fields are correct then it will return true otherwise it will return false even if only one field is incorrect or not validated and then the form will not submit. This is done by adding an "eventListener" to the submit button meaning that if the "validateForm()" returns false the "eventListener" will prevent the "submit" from operating by calling the method "e.preventDefault()". The form validates the users input instantly as "eventListener" was added to all 4 inputs with the "blur" event therefore once the user interacts with another field or tries submitting they get an error message instantly if there are any errors.
